README.md, before:

GoPro Metadata Format Parser
============================

TLDR:

1. 
~~~~
ffmpeg -y -i GOPR0001.MP4 -codec copy -map 0:m:handler_name:"	GoPro MET" -f rawvideo GOPR0001.bin
~~~~
Note the gap before GoPro MET should be a TAB, not a space.

2. `gopro2json -i GOPR0001.bin -o GOPR0001.json`

3. There is no step 3

---

I forked stilldavid's project ( https://github.com/stilldavid/gopro-utils ) to achieve 2 things:
- Export the data in csv format from /bin/gpmdinfo/gpmdinfo.go
- Allow the project to work with GoPro's h5 v2.00 firmware

This is my first Github repository. Any possible wrong practices are not intentional. Here continues Stilldavid's work:
##############################################################################################################

I spent some time trying to reverse-engineer the GoPro Metadata Format (GPMD or GPMDF) that is stored in GoPro Hero 5 cameras if GPS is enabled. This is what I found.

Part of this code is in production on [Earthscape](https://public.earthscape.com/); for an example of what you can do with the extracted data, see [this video](https://public.earthscape.com/videos/10231).

If you enjoy working on this sort of thing, please see our [careers page](https://churchillnavigation.com/careers/).


Extracting the Metadata File
----------------------------

The metadata stream is stored in the `.mp4` video file itself alongside the video and audio streams. We can use `ffprobe` to find it:

```
[computar][100GOPRO] ➔ ffprobe GOPR0008.MP4
ffprobe version 3.2.4 Copyright (c) 2007-2017 the FFmpeg developers
[SNIP]
    Stream #0:3(eng): Data: none (gpmd / 0x646D7067), 33 kb/s (default)
    Metadata:
      creation_time   : 2016-11-22T23:42:41.000000Z
      handler_name    : 	GoPro MET
[SNIP]
```

We can identify it by the `gpmd` in the tag string - in this case it's id 3. We can then use `ffmpeg` to extract the metadata stream into a binary file for processing:

`ffmpeg -y -i GOPR0001.MP4 -codec copy -map 0:3 -f rawvideo out-0001.bin`

This leaves us with a binary file with the data.

Data We Get
-----------

* ~400 Hz 3-axis gyro readings
* ~200 Hz 3-axis accelerometer readings
* ~18 Hz GPS position (lat/lon/alt/spd)
* 1 Hz GPS timestamps
* 1 Hz GPS accuracy (cm) and fix (2d/3d)
* 1 Hz temperature of camera

---


The Protocol
------------

Data starts with a label that describes the data following it. Values are all big endian, and floats are IEEE 754. Everything is packed to 4 bytes where applicable, padded with zeroes so it's 32-bit aligned.

 * **Labels** - human readable types of proceeding data
 * **Type** - single ascii character describing data
 * **Size** - how big is the data type
 * **Count** - how many values are we going to get
 * **Length** = size * count

Labels include:

 * `ACCL` - accelerometer reading x/y/z
 * `DEVC` - device 
 * `DVID` - device ID, possibly hard-coded to 0x1
 * `DVNM` - devicde name, string "Camera"
 * `EMPT` - empty packet
 * `GPS5` - GPS data (lat, lon, alt, speed, 3d speed)
 * `GPSF` - GPS fix (none, 2d, 3d)
 * `GPSP` - GPS positional accuracy in cm
 * `GPSU` - GPS acquired timestamp; potentially different than "camera time"
 * `GYRO` - gryroscope reading x/y/z
 * `SCAL` - scale factor, a multiplier for subsequent data
 * `SIUN` - SI units; strings (m/s², rad/s)
 * `STRM` - ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
 * `TMPC` - temperature
 * `TSMP` - total number of samples
 * `UNIT` - alternative units; strings (deg, m, m/s)

Types include:

 * `c` - single char
 * `L` - unsigned long
 * `s` - signed short
 * `S` - unsigned short
 * `f` - 32 float

For implementation details, see `reader.go` and other corresponding files in `telemetry/`.

Commit message:

Renamed my modified tool to gpmd2csv for clarity. Returned gpmdinfo to its original state. Included the GPMD2CSV tool folder for easy data extraction without technical knowledge

README.md, after:

GoPro Metadata Format Parser + GPMD2CSV
============================

I forked stilldavid's project ( https://github.com/stilldavid/gopro-utils ) to achieve 3 things:
- Export the data in csv format from /bin/gpmd2csv/gpmd2csv.go
- Allow the project to work with GoPro's h5 v2.00 firmware
- Create a tool for easy data extraction. That's the GPMD2CSV folder. You can just drag and drop the GoPro video files on the BATCH file

This is my first Github repository. Any possible wrong practices are not intentional. Here continues Stilldavid's work:
##############################################################################################################

TLDR:

1.
~~~~
ffmpeg -y -i GOPR0001.MP4 -codec copy -map 0:m:handler_name:"	GoPro MET" -f rawvideo GOPR0001.bin
~~~~
Note the gap before GoPro MET should be a TAB, not a space.

2. `gopro2json -i GOPR0001.bin -o GOPR0001.json`

3. There is no step 3

---



I spent some time trying to reverse-engineer the GoPro Metadata Format (GPMD or GPMDF) that is stored in GoPro Hero 5 cameras if GPS is enabled. This is what I found.

Part of this code is in production on [Earthscape](https://public.earthscape.com/); for an example of what you can do with the extracted data, see [this video](https://public.earthscape.com/videos/10231).

If you enjoy working on this sort of thing, please see our [careers page](https://churchillnavigation.com/careers/).


Extracting the Metadata File
----------------------------

The metadata stream is stored in the `.mp4` video file itself alongside the video and audio streams. We can use `ffprobe` to find it:

```
[computar][100GOPRO] ➔ ffprobe GOPR0008.MP4
ffprobe version 3.2.4 Copyright (c) 2007-2017 the FFmpeg developers
[SNIP]
    Stream #0:3(eng): Data: none (gpmd / 0x646D7067), 33 kb/s (default)
    Metadata:
      creation_time   : 2016-11-22T23:42:41.000000Z
      handler_name    : 	GoPro MET
[SNIP]
```

We can identify it by the `gpmd` in the tag string - in this case it's id 3. We can then use `ffmpeg` to extract the metadata stream into a binary file for processing:

`ffmpeg -y -i GOPR0001.MP4 -codec copy -map 0:3 -f rawvideo out-0001.bin`

This leaves us with a binary file with the data.

Data We Get
-----------

* ~400 Hz 3-axis gyro readings
* ~200 Hz 3-axis accelerometer readings
* ~18 Hz GPS position (lat/lon/alt/spd)
* 1 Hz GPS timestamps
* 1 Hz GPS accuracy (cm) and fix (2d/3d)
* 1 Hz temperature of camera

---


The Protocol
------------

Data starts with a label that describes the data following it. Values are all big endian, and floats are IEEE 754. Everything is packed to 4 bytes where applicable, padded with zeroes so it's 32-bit aligned.

 * **Labels** - human readable types of proceeding data
 * **Type** - single ascii character describing data
 * **Size** - how big is the data type
 * **Count** - how many values are we going to get
 * **Length** = size * count

Labels include:

 * `ACCL` - accelerometer reading x/y/z
 * `DEVC` - device
 * `DVID` - device ID, possibly hard-coded to 0x1
 * `DVNM` - devicde name, string "Camera"
 * `EMPT` - empty packet
 * `GPS5` - GPS data (lat, lon, alt, speed, 3d speed)
 * `GPSF` - GPS fix (none, 2d, 3d)
 * `GPSP` - GPS positional accuracy in cm
 * `GPSU` - GPS acquired timestamp; potentially different than "camera time"
 * `GYRO` - gryroscope reading x/y/z
 * `SCAL` - scale factor, a multiplier for subsequent data
 * `SIUN` - SI units; strings (m/s², rad/s)
 * `STRM` - ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
 * `TMPC` - temperature
 * `TSMP` - total number of samples
 * `UNIT` - alternative units; strings (deg, m, m/s)

Types include:

 * `c` - single char
 * `L` - unsigned long
 * `s` - signed short
 * `S` - unsigned short
 * `f` - 32 float

For implementation details, see `reader.go` and other corresponding files in `telemetry/`.
